**Ankh source code**

*Subversion*

Currently, to get a copy of the Ankh source code, you need to check
it out using another SVN client. Further, in order to actually build it, you
will also need to build Subversion itself. It then makes sense to start the
process by building your own copy of the Subversion commandline client.

Note: The current source tree is only guaranteed to build against the 1.0.x
releases of SVN.

Start by getting the 
(http://subversion.tigris.org/servlets/ProjectDocumentList?folderID=260) source
tarball. You will also need the VS.NET version of the Berkeley DB binaries,
which can be found at
http://subversion.tigris.org/servlets/ProjectDocumentList?folderID=688. We are
currently using the 4.2.52 version.

Extract the subversion tarball (using Winzip or similar). Then, extract the
Berkeley zip into a directory called db4-win32 at the root of the tree
(alongside the doc and build directories).

APR Subversion relies on the Apache Portable Runtime(APR) library. Most of APR
is included in the tarball, but to get Subversion to build on Win32 you will
also need the apr-iconv module. You can check this out from the Apache CVS
repository using a CVS client:

cvs -d :pserver:anoncvs@cvs.apache.org:/home/cvspublic login (password:
'anoncvs') cvs -d :pserver:anoncvs@cvs.apache.org:/home/cvspublic co apr-iconv
    
You may run into a problem with the supplied .dsp files in the tarball. If the
person packaging it was using a UNIX machine, the line endings will probably be
wrong and VS.NET will refuse to convert them. You can use an utility like
unix2dos to fix this, or you can check out those modules from CVS using the
approach described above(just substitute apr and apr-util for apr-iconv). All
the modules need to be in the top-level directory of the Subversion source
tree. 

Generating VS.NET project files You will need Python installed in order to
generate the VS.NET project files. Python distributions for many platforms,
including Windows, can be downloaded from www.python.org. Once you have it
installed, and in the PATH, open a command prompt and go to the root of the
Subversion source tree. Type: 

python gen-make.py -t vcproj

Building Subversion Open the solution by clicking on subversion_vcnet.sln at
the root. Build the ALL project, preferrably in both Debug and Release
configurations.

Create a new system environment variable, SVNSRC, to point to the Subversion
source tree. This is necessary to get the Ankh build to locate the Subversion
libraries and headers.

*Ankh*

Now you are ready to check out Ankh itself. Type the following:

    svn checkout http://www.ankhsvn.com:8088/svn/finalproject/trunk/src ankh

Open and build src.sln (or src.2003.sln if you are using VS.NET 2003). Note
that VS.NET might issue a false COM Interop error while trying to register
Ankh. This is due to the fact that it is linking against the wrong Berkeley DB
binaries (probably the ones from the instalation of the command line client).
To correct this, simply place the path of the Berkley DB binaries before
everything else in your system's PATH variable.

Run the ReCreateCommands.reg file in the Ankh directory. This will register the
addin with VS.NET. If you are using VS.NET 2003 you need to edit this file
where it says 7.0 and change it to 7.1.

To get VS.NET to recognize the custom menu icons, you need to edit
SatelliteDll.reg in the same directory. Set the path for SatelliteDllPath to
the correct one for your system, then run the .reg file.

Go into the Project Properties of the Ankh project. Choose Configuration
Properties->Debug. Set Debug Mode to Program, and set Start Application to the
path to devenv.exe on your system(Probably C:\Program Files\Microsoft Visual
Studio .NET\Common7\IDE\devenv.exe).

Starting the Ankh project should now create a new instance of VS.NET with Ankh
loaded.
